# regimentationofmusic
Regimentation of the Musical Front: How the Soviet Government Used the Censorship of Musical Compositions to Expand its Power 

Stalin’s rule of the Soviet Union used cultural censorship to motivate the government as a collective to continue enacting his oppressive policies, subsequently demotivating the general population’s resistance to such political actions. This study examines the relationship between the rhetoric in Stalin’s speeches and the features of censored and approved music after the implementation of his first two Five Year Plans (1929-1940). The difference in compositional elements based on government approval following Stalin’s implementation of the first Five-Year Plan was hypothesized to illustrate the use of musical censorship to maintain power. Findings reveal a reduction in elements that emphasized individuality and experimentation and an increase in those associated with militarism (straight rhythms, homophony) and regimentation (decreased interval complexity, syncopation, and dissonance). Both speeches and song lyrics used distancing rhetoric between the rulers and the ruled, elevating the government’s efforts, distinctively elevating Stalin as the head of state, and collectivizing the general population subject to the government’s leadership. The alignment between Stalin’s rhetoric and musical censorship over the course of the first two Five-Year plans illustrates how autocratic regimes manipulate culture to enforce regimentation and expand their control of society. 

Similarities among musical lyrics created during this period and political speeches outline connections between the regime’s policies and how they limited public expressions. These similarities can be used to illustrate the presence of government influence in the cultural sphere, and how such influence could have impacted the general population.  This computational analysis could provide quantitative evidence to back the identification of correlating themes in accepted song lyrics and political speeches made by Stalin.   
The findings suggest that both speeches and lyrical music reinforced distancing between the government and the broader Soviet Union, mobilizing the population towards fighting for the socialist revolution under the guidance of the rulers, and suppressing opposition to the ruling class. Speeches employed a distinction between Stalin, the communist party, and the general population, and they had a clear call to action. The frequent use of militaristic ideas in both mediums highlight the extent to which the Soviet government framed economic and political struggles as existential battles, led by the ruling class. Moreover, the emphasis on collectivism in song lyrics, as opposed to the more directive tone in speeches, reflects an attempt to foster voluntary commitment among citizens while simultaneously discouraging individual opinions out of line with the government.       

Ultimately, the analysis provides evidence of effort to motivate the public to act in accordance with the government, by crafting both speeches and songs to emotionally appeal to people’s fear of militaristic threat but also enforce a power distinction between the rulers and the ruled. By interweaving economic goals with moral imperatives and militant themes, Stalin’s political discourse maintained the bureaucratic agencies that were employing strict ideological control on Soviet people. Requiring widespread participation in state initiatives and backing this through the musical culture of the Soviet Union helped to justify them. The composers were a part of the war effort and meant to be amongst the “people” rather than having the individual identity they were initially expressing through their music. The regimented structure of Soviet rhetoric, where speeches asserted authority, songs were accepted if they maintained collective identity, and ideological enemies were systematically separated, ensured a controlled societal structure in which the ruling class remained the guiding force over the ruled. Demobilization of such separate and deviant groups was accompanied by mobilizing the government in their identity as the powerful leaders of progress, empowering them to carry out Stalin’s policies. Discursive patterns in song lyrics were used to relay political authority and mobilize the government towards maintaining Stalin’s power, illustrated in the relationship between the songs and the speeches. 
